The self-lift power drive unit (PDU) electrically raises and moves containers

The HF communication antenna coupler matches (tunes) the impedance of the antenna to the impedance of the transceiver.

During transmit, the active coupler sends a signal to prevent the other system from transmitting or receiving. 
- Uses the cross-talk bus. <br/><br/>


The left VHF radio receives tuning control input directly from the left TCP as a back-up if there is a CDN failure. <br/><br/>

The emergency locator transmitter (ELT) aircraft identification module (AIM) supplies this data to the ELT: 
- Airplane address number 
- Airplane operator designator number and serial number. <br/><br/>

The AIM:
- Is an interface between the transmitter and a 24-bit switch module,
- Converts the switch positions from the 24-bit switch module into an electronic signal. <br/><br/>

When the OBS AUDIO switch is in the NORM position, the 3 ACPs operate normally.
- Put the switch in the CAPT or F/O position to let the observer ACP operate as the captain or first officer ACP
- This internally connects the jack panels and push-to-talk switches from the failed ACP to the observer ACP. <br/><br/>

The service interphone system lets personnel talk with each other from these 3 locations:
- P40 panel - nose landing gear
- P57 panel - left main landing gear
- Flight compartment. <br/><br/>

If it not operating, then the switch is on the P5 panel is not selected ON. 

The speaker drive modules (SDM) receive digital audio from the cabin zone units (CZU) and send it to the speakers. 

Each SDM can control audio for up to four speakers in the cabin areas. 

TCP receives cabin interphone PA information from the RDC via CDN

The autoflight function (AFF) is a software application in the flight control electronics (FCE).

At 1500 feet radio altitude, this occurs:
- Autopilot status annunciator changes from A/P to LAND 3
- ROLLOUT and FLARE arm as the roll and pitch modes
- Rudder backdrive actuator engages. <br/><br/>

3 sets of contacts send a disconnect/reset signal to the ACEs in the FCEs 

The MCP has 2 lanes (A and B) that do data processing and input and output functions. Every time the AP is disengaged and re-engaged, and first power up it changes the lanes. 

The TMF is a hosted application in the **common computing resource (CCR)** cabinets (not part of the autoflight function in the FCE cabinets 

Thrust management system (TMS) indications show on these displays: 
- Primary flight display (PFD) 
- Head-up display (HUD) 
- EICAS <br/><br/>

SSPC are used to power the Pitot probes, TAT probe and AOA sensors.

Bulk Cargo Zone Temp Sensor is a dual element sensor and sends info to the CDN through 2 RDCs. 

A hydraulic quantity linear variable differential transformer (LVDT) sense the fluid quantity in the reservoir. 

The 4 electric motor pumps (EMP) have a 3-position selector: 
- OFF - pump is off 
- ON - pump operates and makes pressure 
- AUTO - pump operates when control logic senses a large system demand in flight <br/><br/>

To stow the RAT after deployment, Aircraft must be on ground, GND TEST to enable, centre hydraulic system pressurized, blades correctly aligned, and RAT switch (P57) held in the ON position 

The temperature sensor for the EMP is installed on the EMP itself. 

The control wheel back drive actuator (BDA) moves the wheel when: 
- The autopilot gives a roll command (to match the flight control surface position). <br/><br/>

The control column backdrive actuator (BDA) moves the control column during autopilot operation. It is engaged during autopilot operation after takeoff and for climb, cruise, and descent operations. Movement of the BDA gives the flight crew an indication of the autopilot pitch commands sent to the primary flight control surfaces. 

The rudder pedal back drive actuator (BDA) moves the rudder pedals during auto land operation.

When Auto pilot is engaged all the 3 flight controls are moved by the BDA and no cable backup. 

The red lights in the wheel well areas indicate that it is unsafe to enter. The safety valve module have to be reset prior to entering. 

These MLG Truck Positioner actuators get 28v dc from remote power distribution units (RPDU). 

MLG UPLOCK, MLG DRAG BRACE, MLG SIDE BRACE & MLG RETRACT ACTUATORS on each MLG assembly 

Nose wheel spin brake stops Nose Landing Gear Wheels from Rotating when retracting. 

The alternate extend power pack pulls hydraulic fluid from an oversize tube in the center hydraulic system reservoir. 

Electric brake actuator (EBA) (4 on each MLG brake) 

The left and right brake pedal sensors supply inputs to the onside BSCU.

NWS uses center hydraulic system pressure.

PED Girt Bar 
- It engages with the floor fittings and holds the end of the escape slide pack when the door is opened. <br/><br/>

When the door is in the closed, latched, and locked position, marks on the lock sectors and latch cams align to show a safe condition. Witness ports along the bottom outer edge of the door skin permit visual verification. 

The switch is spring operated and has 3 positions: 
- AUTO - usual position (default position) 
- UNLKD (unlocked) - push and turn (momentary) 
- DENY - turn (momentary). <br/><br/>

The forward electrical equipment (EE) access door has one sensor on the forward inboard edge of the door. The aft EE access door has a sensor on the left aft edge of the aft EE access door. 

