ATA 21 27 26 56  
A switch/controller in the window reveal lets the passenger control the quantity of light that comes through the window  
  
The APU stops automatically, and the fire bottle discharges 15 seconds later.  
  
The WWFDS also supplies a signal to flight controls to set a small gap in spoilers 6 and 9.   
This occurs if a wheel well ambient temperature, measured by 2 sensor elements above 1 axle, is more than 140F (60C).   
The result is a cooling airflow through the wheel well.  
  
SMCU monitors the cargo squibs integrity and provides discharge power for the cargo bottles and flow control valves.  
  
Aircon synoptic page is shown in the MFD  
  
The alternate ventilation system (AVS) lets external air go directly into the airplane when there is a loss of conditioned air inflow (LOCI) condition.   
  
The AVS on B787-9 uses both the FWD and AFT outflow valves.   
When the AVS operates, the FWD outflow valve move to 10 o'clock position and the AFT outflow valve to 1 o'clock position  
  
Bulk Cargo Zone Temp Sensor is a dual element sensor and sends info to the CDN through 2 RDCs.  
  
FWD E&E cooling exhaust overboard valve power is +28v dc from remote power distribution unit (RPDU) 73.  
  
The valve control units (VCU) control the OFVs in the automatic mode.   
  
The operating modes of the outflow valves are Auto and Manual. 3 motors – 2 Auto and 1 Manual  
  
When power first goes to the PCU, the PCU software selects one PCU channel to be in control and the other channel to operate in a tracking mode. (The control and tracking channels change at each flight).  
  
The cabin air compressor (CAC) deflector door protects the CAC inlet from FOD or nose gear water spray while the airplane is on ground.  
  
The 2 elements of a loop must sense the over-temperature condition at the same time.  
  
1. There is a zonal dryer in the forward and aft crown areas.    
2. The moist air goes through the lower recirculation air system to the compact mixer.  
  
The PECS uses primary and secondary heat exchangers in each loop to make the coolant cool:   
- Primary - ram air heat exchangers in the pack bays   
- Secondary - lavatory/galley ventilation system heat exchangers.  
  
The Surface lock Switch in P5 locks control surfaces in PFCF modes Normal & Secondary flight controls and for HLF modes    
Primary and Secondary for maintenance use only.  
  
Three of the flight control electronics (FCE) cabinets have an FCM.   
FCE C2 does not have an FCM.   
During Normal Mode FCM controls surface commands based on inputs from crew  
  
Shows surface positions, hydraulic system status & flight control modes   
  
Flight control major and minor rigging pages are accessed through the Central Maintenance Computing Function (CMCF) line Maintenance on ATA 27  
  
The control wheel back drive actuator (BDA) moves the wheel when: - The autopilot gives a roll command (to match the flight control surface position).   
  
The control column backdrive actuator (BDA) moves the control column during autopilot operation.   
It is engaged during autopilot operation after takeoff and for climb, cruise, and descent operations.   
Movement of the BDA gives the flight crew an indication of the autopilot pitch commands sent to the primary flight control surfaces.     
  
The rudder pedal back drive actuator (BDA) moves the rudder pedals during auto land operation.   
  
When Auto pilot is engaged all the 3 flight controls are moved by the BDA and no cable backup.  
  
The feel and centering unit is a spring-loaded cam and roller unit that:  
- Gives resistance (feel) to control wheel movement  
- Moves the wheel to the center position when the pilot lets go of the wheel  
  
The empennage door actuation system (EDAS) decreases drag forces on the vertical and horizontal stabilizers.  
  
The FCEs send position command data to an REU at each of the 4 elevator PCUs. (2 on each side L & R)  
  
The EMCUs control the horizontal stabilizer trim actuator (HSTA).  
  
Spoiler droop improves lift by control of the gap between the trailing edge of the spoilers and the upper surface of the flaps.  
In addition to speedbrake and roll control, the lateral control surfaces may be drooped to improve aerodynamic performance.  
  
If all the FCEs fails, the RVDT in the captain cluster connects directly to a spoiler electronics motor control unit (EMCU) for direct operation of spoiler 4.   
The other RVDT in the first officer cluster connects directly to a spoiler EMCU for direct operation of spoiler 11.  
  
RVDT IN Capt goes to spoiler 4.  
RVDT in FO goes to spoiler 11.  
  
The outboard slat skew system has a detection mechanism assembly (DMA) that contains a sensor, target, and spring assembly.   
A lanyard goes along the back of the outboard slats and connects to the DMA.   
Skew movement of the slats pulls on the DMA, and the DMA sensor gives a skew indication.   
Slat skew sensors at the inboard LE flap monitor skew and asymmetry conditions.   
These sensors connect to the FCEs. The FCEs stops slat operation for skew and asymmetry conditions in the high lift primary and secondary modes.   
Flight deck indications show for skew and asymmetry conditions in all high lift modes  
  
Week 4 Study Notes  
  
ATA27 Flight Controls  
What is meant by surface lock.  
Flight controls are prevented from movement.  
  
What is the purpose of variable camber trim unit (VCTU)during cruse phase of flight? Provides less drag  
  
How many flight control electronic (FCE) cabinets are there?   
4  
  
How does 1 flight control electronic (FCE) cabinet differ?  
It does not have a flight control module  
  
In normal mode where do signals from the wheel, column and rudder pedal transducers go?   
Actuator control electronic (ACE)  
  
What are the three control modes of the Primary Flight Control Function?   
Normal secondary and direct  
  
On the flight control synoptic page what indications show?   
Flight control surface position, hydraulic system status and flight control mode  
  
Flight control major and minor rigging pages are accessed through:  
the CMCF Line Maintenance-Ground Test ATA27  
  
Identify the 3 high lift function modes   
Primary secondary and Alternate  
  
Will the flight control wheel & column move when the autopilot is engaged?   
The control wheel and column are moved by the back-drive actuators  
  
When force is removed from the control wheel, what device(s) move the wheel back to the neutral position?   
Feel and centering unit  
  
Which of the following is NOT installed on the aileron or elevator?   
Gust suppression pressure transducer  
  
What is the purpose of the empennage door actuation during flight?   
Improves airflow over empennage  
  
How many elevator power control units are installed per elevator?  
2 each left and right elevator  
  
Horizontal stab indication green band is?   
Calculated in the display and crew alert function (DCAF) for aircraft gross weight and nose gear pressure transducer signals  
  
Power to the horizontal stab motor and brake are provided by:  
Electrical motor control units send electrical power to the motors and brakes  
  
Which control surface droops?   
Flaperon Aileron and spoilers  
  
What failures would cause the trailing edge flaps to have to operate in alternate mode?   
flight control module failure  
  
Why would the Flap door assembly remain open?   
The flap door gas spring failed  
  
How many total spoiler resolvers are there and what is the function?   
14 each provide feedback position information  
  
Where is the speed brake cutout module located?   
Control stand directly below speed brake control  
  
What lets the pilots control the airplane if all 3 flight control modules (FCM) fail?   
A fourth transducer wired directly to the EMCU for spoiler 4 and 11  
  
How is slat asymmetry detected?   
The direct motion assembly connected by cable to each outboard slat.  
  
ATA 26 Fire Protection  
How does the engine and APU fire detection elements detect fire?   
Negative temperature co-efficient sensing element to detect low resistance during high temperature.   
  
What sends the engine fire detection signal to the common data network?   
Main engine data concentrator (MEDC).  
  
The APU is in the attended mode on the ground. An APU fire is detected. What occurs?   
The APU will automatically stop and the fire extinguishing system will activate.  
  
What occurs if the cargo compartment temperature is more than maximum (threshold) levels?   
The temperature sensor will cause a fire warning if the Cargo Compartment gets to 100 deg. C  
  
What occurs if the main wheel well temperature is more than the maximum (threshold) levels?   
The inboard spoilers will deploy slightly to ventilate the wheel well. If there still is an overheat condition the fire warning will come on if the temperature is (275 to375 F)  
  
When does the engine fire protection system (EFPS) discharge the fire extinguishing agent?   
When the fire handle (switch) is rotated.  
  
What is the purpose of the squib monitor control unit (SMCU)?   
Monitors the cargo squibs condition, and provides discharge power for the cargo bottles and flow control valves.  
  
The fire overheat test switch on P5 panel does a test of the fire protection system. What other function does this switch have?   
It will reset the APU if it was shut down by the P40 panel.  
  
ATA 56 Windows  
Who can control the Visible Light Transmittance of the passenger cabin?  
Cabin Crew and Individual PAX  
  
ATA 21 Air conditioning  
Where can air distribution synoptic be displayed?   
Head down display  
  
On the 787-8 Aircraft what is the function of alternate ventilation system.  
provides a secondary source of air for cabin  
  
On the 787-8 aircraft how many alternate ventilation system AVS inlet doors are there and where are they located?  
1 door located on the left wing to body fairing   
  
What unit provides bulk cargo heat supply zone temperature information to the common data network CDN?   
RDC  
  
What provides power to the forward E&E cooling exhaust overboard valve.  
RPDU  
  
What voltage is required to power the forward E&E cooling exhaust overboard valve?  
28VDC  
  
How many valve control units are installed and what do they control?  
2 They control the forward and aft outflow valve  
  
What are the operating modes of the cabin pressure control system?  
Automatic or Manual   
  
Aft cargo heat valve position is provided by which unit?  
Remote data concentrator RDC  
  
Passenger entry door floor heater information is sent to CDN via which unit?   
Remote data concentrator RDC  
  
Cabin temp control and indication can be located on?  
Flight attendant panel CAP  
  
Supplemental cooling units SCU provide improved cooling for the?   
Galleys  
  
Compressor motor controllers CMC in the supplementary cooling units operator on what voltage?   
235VAC  
  
Where are the zonal dryers located?   
Passenger cabin crown area  
  
Where is the moist air sent from the zonal dryer?   
Forward cargo mixing Bay Area.   
  
How many power electronics cooling systems PECS are installed on the airplane?   
2 L/H and R/H PECS  
  
Power Electronics Cooling System PECS heat exchangers receives cooling air from what source?  
Ram air  
  
Pack control unit signals are normally routed through Remote Data Concentrators:  
to the common data network   
  
The ozone converter is located:   
Down stream of the CAC’s  
  
What is the purpose of Cabin Air Compressor CAC deflector doors?   
Prevents foreign object damage during ground operations  
  
In the pack bay area the overheat Detection System ODS controller receives signals from sensor:  
A and B  
  
Where is the Overheat Detection System ODS controller located?   
Aft cargo R/H sidewall  
  
The integrated cooling system ICS liquid cooling pump package is in the:  
R/H wheel well  
